[IMP] sales: updated variants doc for v16 (#5942)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/sales/sales/products_prices/products/variants.rst

Product variants
================

Product variants are used to give single products a variety of different characteristics/options for
customers to choose from, such as size, style, or color -- just to name a few.

Products that have variants can be managed on the product's individual product template (for all
attributes and variants of that product), and/or on the :guilabel:`Product Variants` or
:guilabel:`Attributes` page (for specific variants). All of which are located in the Odoo *Sales*

> application.

Author: I fully understand what you're suggesting, and I can see the benefit of such an explanation. However, since the example I use immediately follows the brief intro, I feel like adding a couple of sentences right before the example may come across as redundant. I believe the broken down example of a T-Shirt company does a better job of defining the differences between those elements. But, if you think it's necessary, I can reconsider and put a sentence or two in before the example. :)

To create a new attribute from the :guilabel:`Attributes` page, click :guilabel:`New`. Doing so
reveals a blank attributes form that can be customized and configured in a number of ways.

.. image:: variants/attribute-creation.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A blank attribute creation form in the Odoo Sales application.

First, choose an :guilabel:`Attribute Name`, such as `Color` or `Size`.

Next, in the optional :guilabel:`Category` field, select a category from a drop-down menu to regroup
similar attributes under the same section for added specificity and organization.

.. note::
   To view the details related to the attribute category selected, click the :guilabel:`Internal
   Link ➡️ (arrow)` icon to the far-right of the :guilabel:`Category` field. Doing so reveals that
   attribute category's detail form.

   .. image:: variants/attribute-category-internal-link.png
      :align: center
      :alt: A standard attribute category detail page accessible via its internal link arrow icon.

   Here, the :guilabel:`Category Name` and :guilabel:`Sequence` is displayed at the top. Followed by
   :guilabel:`Related Attributes` associated with the category. These attributes can be

>    dragged-and-dropped into an desirable order of priority.

Author: It's my understanding that it's purely for visual purposes. For example, if you're selling T-Shirts, do you want customers to see the Sizes and *then* the Colors (or vice versa) -- nothing more than that really 👍

specifications that are specific to this particular value).

.. note::
   If the :guilabel:`Display Type` - :guilabel:`Color` option is selected, the option to add an HTML
   color code to the far-right of the value line, to make it easier for salespeople and customers to
   know exactly what color option they're choosing.

   .. image:: variants/attribute-value-add-a-line.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Attribute values tab when add a line is clicked, showing the custom columns.

   To choose a color, click the blank circle in the :guilabel:`Color` column, which reveals a HTML
   color selector pop-up window.

   .. image:: variants/picking-a-color.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Selecting a color from the HTML color pop-up window that appears on attribute form.

   In this pop-up window, select a specific color by dragging the color slider to a particular hue,
   and clicking on the color portion directly on the color gradient window.

   Or, choose a specific color by clicking the *dropper* icon, and selecting a desired color that's
   currently clickable on the screen.

   A color can also be chosen by entering a specific HTML color code into the corresponding

>    :guilabel:`R`, :guilabel:`G`, and :guilabel:`B` fields.

Reviewer: Can also use HEX or HSL values by clicking through the arrows to change up the display

   :guilabel:`Create and edit...` creates the attribute, and a :guilabel:`Create Attribute` pop-up
   form appears. In the pop-up form, proceed to modify the attribute in a number of ways.

Once an attribute is selected in the :guilabel:`Attribute` column, proceed to select the specific
attribute values to apply to the product, via the drop-down menu available in the :guilabel:`Values`
column.

.. note::
   There is no limit to how many values can be added.

.. tip::
   Similar product variant creation processes are accessible through the Purchase, Inventory, and
   eCommerce applications.

Configure variants
------------------

To the far-right of the attribute line is a :guilabel:`Configure` button. When clicked, Odoo reveals
a separate page showcasing those specific :guilabel:`Product Variant Values`.

.. image:: variants/product-variant-values.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The Product Variant Values page accessible via the Configure button on a product form.

Here, the specific :guilabel:`Value` name, :guilabel:`HTML Color Index` (if applicable), and
:guilabel:`Value Price Extra` are viewable.

.. note::

>    The :guilabel:`Value Price Extra` represents the increase in price related to a specific value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The :guilabel:`Value Price Extra` represents the increase in the sales price if the attribute is selected.
```

smart button indicates how many variants are currently configured for that specific product.

.. image:: variants/variants-smart-button.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The variants smart button at the top of the product form in Odoo Sales.

When the :guilabel:`Variants` smart button is clicked, Odoo reveals a separate page showcasing all
the specific product variant combinations configured for that specific product.

.. image:: variants/variants-page.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The variants page accessible via the variants smart button on the product form in Odoo.

Impact of variants
==================

In addition to offering more detailed product options to customers, product variants have their own
impacts that can be taken advantage of throughout the Odoo database.

- :guilabel:`Barcode`: barcodes are associated with each variant, instead of the product template.
  Each individual variant can have its own unique barcode/SKU.

- :guilabel:`Price`: every product variant has its own public price, which is the sum of the
  product template price *and* any extra charges for particular attributes.

  .. example::

>    A red shirt's cost is $23 -- because the shirt's template price is $20, plus an additional $3 for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   A red shirt's sales price is $23 -- because the shirt's template price is $20, plus an additional $3 for
```

Product variants
================

> Product variants are used to give single products a variety of different characteristics/options for

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Product variants are used to give single products a variety of different characteristics and options for
```

> customers to choose from, such as size, style, or color -- just to name a few.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
customers to choose from, such as size, style, or color, just to name a few.
```

Products that have variants can be managed on the product's individual product template (for all
attributes and variants of that product), and/or on the :guilabel:`Product Variants` or
:guilabel:`Attributes` page (for specific variants). All of which are located in the Odoo *Sales*
application.

> .. example::

Reviewer 2: A screenshot with this example would be a nice addition to this example admonition, but it works just fine without it as well

Author: I totally understand this suggestion. However, given how it's formatted, I think the example is easy to follow, as is. So, with that in mind, I think I'll keep it as just an admonition. But I fully appreciate the suggestion. 👍

   A T-shirt company may have the following product variants:

   - T-shirt

     - Color: Blue, Red, White, Black
     - Size: S, M, L, XL, XXL

   Here, the **T-shirt** is the product template, and **T-shirt: Blue, S** is a specific product
   variant.

   **Color** and **Size** are attributes, and the corresponding options (like **Blue** and **S**)
   are values.

>    In this instance, there is a total of twenty different product variants (four **Color** options
>    multiplied by five **Size** options). Each variant has its own inventory, sales, etc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   In this instance, there is a total of twenty different product variants: four **Color** options
   multiplied by five **Size** options. Each variant has its own inventory, sales, etc.
```

To create a new attribute from the :guilabel:`Attributes` page, click :guilabel:`New`. Doing so
reveals a blank attributes form that can be customized and configured in a number of ways.

.. image:: variants/attribute-creation.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A blank attribute creation form in the Odoo Sales application.

First, choose an :guilabel:`Attribute Name`, such as `Color` or `Size`.

Next, in the optional :guilabel:`Category` field, select a category from a drop-down menu to group
similar attributes under the same section for added specificity and organization.

.. note::
   To view the details related to the attribute category selected, click the :guilabel:`Internal
   Link ➡️ (arrow)` icon to the far-right of the :guilabel:`Category` field. Doing so reveals that
   attribute category's detail form.

   .. image:: variants/attribute-category-internal-link.png
      :align: center
      :alt: A standard attribute category detail page accessible via its internal link arrow icon.

   Here, the :guilabel:`Category Name` and :guilabel:`Sequence` is displayed at the top. Followed by
   :guilabel:`Related Attributes` associated with the category. These attributes can be

>    dragged-and-dropped into an desirable order of priority.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   dragged-and-dropped into a desirable order of priority.
```

   Attributes can be directly added to the category, as well, by clicking :guilabel:`Add a line`.

.. tip::
   To create an attribute category directly from this field, start typing the name of the new
   category, then select either :guilabel:`Create` or :guilabel:`Create and edit...` from the
   drop-down menu that appears.

>    Clicking :guilabel:`Create` created the category, which can be modified later. Clicking

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Clicking :guilabel:`Create` creates the category, which can be modified later. Clicking
```

of Sale` dashboard, and :guilabel:`Product Configurator`.

The :guilabel:`Display Type` options are:

- :guilabel:`Radio`: options appear in a bullet-style list on the product page of the online store.
- :guilabel:`Pills`: options appear as selectable buttons on the product page of the online store.
- :guilabel:`Select`: options appear in a drop-down menu on the product page of the online store.
- :guilabel:`Color`: options appear as small, colored squares, which reflect any HTML color codes
  set, on the product page of the online store.

.. image:: variants/display-types.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Display Types on Product Configurator on the online store in Odoo.

The :guilabel:`Variants Creation Mode` field informs Odoo when to automatically create a new variant
once an attribute is added to a product.

- :guilabel:`Instantly`: creates all possible variants as soon as attributes and values are added
  to a product template.
- :guilabel:`Dynamically`: creates variants **only** when corresponding attributes and values are
  added to a sales order.
- :guilabel:`Never (option)`: never automatically creates variants.

.. important::

>    Once added to a product, an attribute's :guilabel:`Variants Creation Mode` cannot be edited.

Reviewer 2: Is this important enough to be a `Warning` or `Danger` admonition?

Lastly, the :guilabel:`eCommerce Filter Visibility` field determines whether these attribute options
are visible to the customer on the front-end, as they shop on the online store.

- :guilabel:`Visible`: the attribute values are visible to customers on the front-end.
- :guilabel:`Hidden`: the attribute values are hidden from customers on the front-end.

Attribute values
----------------

Attribute values should be added to the :guilabel:`Attribute Values` tab. Values can be added to an
attribute at any time, if needed.

To add a value, click :guilabel:`Add a line` in the :guilabel:`Attribute Values` tab.

Then, enter the name of the value in the :guilabel:`Value` column. Next, check the box in the
:guilabel:`Is custom value` column, if the value is custom (i.e. the customer gets to provide unique
specifications that are specific to this particular value).

.. note::
   If the :guilabel:`Display Type` - :guilabel:`Color` option is selected, the option to add an HTML

>    color code to the far-right of the value line, to make it easier for salespeople and customers to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   color code will appear to the far-right of the value line, to make it easier for salespeople and customers to
```
Right?

   know exactly what color option they're choosing.

   .. image:: variants/attribute-value-add-a-line.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Attribute values tab when add a line is clicked, showing the custom columns.

   To choose a color, click the blank circle in the :guilabel:`Color` column, which reveals a HTML
   color selector pop-up window.

   .. image:: variants/picking-a-color.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Selecting a color from the HTML color pop-up window that appears on attribute form.

   In this pop-up window, select a specific color by dragging the color slider to a particular hue,
   and clicking on the color portion directly on the color gradient window.

>    Or, choose a specific color by clicking the *dropper* icon, and selecting a desired color that's

Reviewer 2: Would dropper get a gui label here or no?

Author: Considering it's not specifically labeled on the UI, I do not believe this is worthy of GUI - that's why I opted for the *asterisks*

   currently clickable on the screen.

>    A color can also be chosen by entering a specific HTML color code into the corresponding
>    :guilabel:`R`, :guilabel:`G`, and :guilabel:`B` fields. HEX or HSL values can be used, as well,
>    by clicking through the arrows to change the display.

Reviewer 3: I believe the color picker pop-up is OS & browser specific, see the screenshot below for me on MacOS and FireFox. So I think describing this UI may be confusing for some users. Maybe leave this section out?

<img width="281" alt="Screenshot 2023-12-08 at 11 27 40 AM" src="https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/36018073/fe8bfe41-de16-4d45-b303-57ea1f82aaad">

```suggestion
```

.. tip::
   Attributes can also be created directly from the product template by adding a new line and
   typing the name into the :guilabel:`Variants` tab.

Once an attribute is added to a product, that product is listed and accessible, via the attribute's
:guilabel:`Related Products` smart button. That button lists every product in the database currently
using that attribute.

Product variants
================

Once an attribute is created, use the attribute (and its values) to create a product variant. To do
that, go to :menuselection:`Sales app --> Products --> Products`, and select an existing product to

> view that desired product's product form. Or, click :guilabel:`Create` to create a new product, to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
view that desired product's form. Or, click :guilabel:`Create` to create a new product, to
```

product variant can be added.

> On the product form, click the :guilabel:`Attributes & Variants` tab to view, manage, and modify

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
On the product form, click the :guilabel:`Attributes \& Variants` tab to view, manage, and modify
```

attributes and values for the product.

.. image:: variants/attributes-values-tab.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The attributes and values tab on a typical product form in Odoo Sales.

To add an attribute to a product, and subsequent attribute values, click :guilabel:`Add a line` in
the :guilabel:`Attributes & Variants` tab. Then, choose the desired attribute from the drop-down
menu that appears.

.. note::
   Attributes can be created directly from the :guilabel:`Attributes & Variants` tab of a product
   form. To do that, start typing the name of the new attribute in the blank field, and select
   either :guilabel:`Create` or :guilabel:`Create and edit...` from the mini drop-down menu that
   appears.

>    Clicking :guilabel:`Create` creates the attribute, which can customized later. Clicking

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Clicking :guilabel:`Create` creates the attribute, which can be customized later. Clicking
```
